docs-source/source/faq/chameleon.md, before:

# FAQ chameleon cloud

All FAQ's related to chameleon cloud asume 

1. you have looked at the instances with horizon before you use `cms`
2. `cms` is installed 
3. `cms init` worked and 


## Did cms ever worked?

`cms` Worked from day one ov this class. Due to an change within 
chameleon cloud some parameters needed to be changed in the `cloudmesh.yaml`
file. We informed the entire class to delete the `cloudmesh.yaml` file and create
it again via `cms help`. However, we found that this was often not executed and
a lot of errors could be traced back to that the file was not deleted.
Chameleon also updated the way the network works and we had to integrate at
that time also a mechanism to deal with this. Again if you deleted your yaml
file and recreated it you will have no issue.

If you completely erase your ENV3, the `cloudmesh-*` folder in cm and do a fresh
install you can avoid this. As we had students not following our clear
instructions, we will no longer help if you have not

1. deleted the .cloudmesh directory
2. deleted your virtualnv (for example ENV3)
3. deleted your source cod in cm related to cloudmesh 
   Make sure not to delete the directories unrelated to that. 
   Be careful that you do not delete the `cloudmesh-*` folder 
   that you worked on. make a backup copy.   

Cloudmesh is trivial to install.

## How check if chmaeleon cloud works


```bash
cms set cloud=chameleon
cms flavor list --refresh
```

This returns the list of fkavors

## How do I upload my key to chameleon?

```bash
cms key upload --cloud=chameleon
cms key list --cloud=chameleon
```

## What is the error ...?

1. If you get this error

    ```
    UnboundLocalError: local variable 'key' referenced before assignment
    ```
    
    then you have not uploade your key to chameleon

## What is the chameleon account bug?

Preriquisite:

1. We assue you start by deleting your .cloudmesh directory and have install a
   proper version of cms.


2. Before you do anything verify if you can remember your password. You must
   logout of the chameleon cloud.org dashboart and login, while not using an auto
   completion Web password completer. Make sure to remove your password if you use
   one of them.

Chameleon has several strange bugs we know of that will hopefully be fixed

1. Any account in chameleon that wants to use OpenStack KVM **must** first
   visit horizon and through the visit activate the acoount. The activation via
   the e-mail that they send to you does not fully activate your account.

2. When activation your account in horizon, you meust login to a login screen.
   However, sometimes we observed that screen do not complete the activation and
   you do not get forwarded to horizon. INstead you end in an endless loop for
   activation requests.

3. Some students despite the issue of being able to login reported that they
   can not use cms even though they typed in the password correctly. To find this
   out you have to talk to Gregor which unfortunately needs your username and
   password. to verify if your account works or not.

4. If Gregor can verify that your account works (e.g. he does this on a
   computer on which we checked chameleon cloud works for another account), you
   will have to apply for a new chameleon account with an e-mal that has not been
   used at

   * University of Chicago
   * Indiana University
   * jetstream
   * XSEDE
   * Chameleon Cloud
  
   Than you do the previous steps and check if you can use this account in cms.
   If it works fine, if it does not file a ticket with chameleon cloud.

Gregor completely hats to do 3. and 4. but chameleon cloud have not provided
any proper solutions.

Commit message:

add the windows install videos

docs-source/source/faq/chameleon.md, after:

# FAQ chameleon cloud

All FAQ's related to chameleon cloud asume 

1. you have looked at the instances with horizon before you use `cms`
2. `cms` is installed 
3. `cms init` worked and 


## Did cms ever worked?

`cms` Worked from day one ov this class. Due to an change within 
chameleon cloud some parameters needed to be changed in the `cloudmesh.yaml`
file. We informed the entire class to delete the `cloudmesh.yaml` file and create
it again via `cms help`. However, we found that this was often not executed and
a lot of errors could be traced back to that the file was not deleted.
Chameleon also updated the way the network works and we had to integrate at
that time also a mechanism to deal with this. Again if you deleted your yaml
file and recreated it you will have no issue.

If you completely erase your ENV3, the `cloudmesh-*` folder in cm and do a fresh
install you can avoid this. As we had students not following our clear
instructions, we will no longer help if you have not

1. deleted the .cloudmesh directory
2. deleted your virtualnv (for example ENV3)
3. deleted your source cod in cm related to cloudmesh 
   Make sure not to delete the directories unrelated to that. 
   Be careful that you do not delete the `cloudmesh-*` folder 
   that you worked on. make a backup copy.   
4. after the new install and help call use the command `cms test` 
   and observe and interprete the output.

Cloudmesh is trivial to install.

## How check if chmaeleon cloud works


```bash
cms set cloud=chameleon
cms flavor list --refresh
```

This returns the list of fkavors

## How do I upload my key to chameleon?

```bash
cms key upload --cloud=chameleon
cms key list --cloud=chameleon
```

## What is the error ...?

1. If you get this error

    ```
    UnboundLocalError: local variable 'key' referenced before assignment
    ```
    
    then you have not uploade your key to chameleon

## What is the chameleon account bug?

Preriquisite:

1. We assue you start by deleting your .cloudmesh directory and have install a
   proper version of cms.


2. Before you do anything verify if you can remember your password. You must
   logout of the chameleon cloud.org dashboart and login, while not using an auto
   completion Web password completer. Make sure to remove your password if you use
   one of them.

Chameleon has several strange bugs we know of that will hopefully be fixed

1. Any account in chameleon that wants to use OpenStack KVM **must** first
   visit horizon and through the visit activate the acoount. The activation via
   the e-mail that they send to you does not fully activate your account.

2. When activation your account in horizon, you meust login to a login screen.
   However, sometimes we observed that screen do not complete the activation and
   you do not get forwarded to horizon. INstead you end in an endless loop for
   activation requests.

3. Some students despite the issue of being able to login reported that they
   can not use cms even though they typed in the password correctly. To find this
   out you have to talk to Gregor which unfortunately needs your username and
   password. to verify if your account works or not.

4. If Gregor can verify that your account works (e.g. he does this on a
   computer on which we checked chameleon cloud works for another account), you
   will have to apply for a new chameleon account with an e-mal that has not been
   used at

   * University of Chicago
   * Indiana University
   * jetstream
   * XSEDE
   * Chameleon Cloud
  
   Than you do the previous steps and check if you can use this account in cms.
   If it works fine, if it does not file a ticket with chameleon cloud.

Gregor completely hats to do 3. and 4. but chameleon cloud have not provided
any proper solutions.
